### Are you free to download the data and reuse it with no or minimal restrictions?

Many repositories that claim to be open are only open for humans to read, *not for machine-based access or for re-use*. So it is important to check before depositing data that the data is free to reuse according to the definition of the commons.

Data should be stored in a non-proprietary format, i.e., a format that is published and free for re-use by anyone, e.g., CSV.  In contrast, a proprietary format is not published and can only be read by certain commercial software.  As the goal of publishing data in a repository is for openness and re-use, data that is reliant on propriety software is by definition non-commons compliant.  Adapted from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proprietary_format)

Consider the type of data and whether the access mechanism places undue restraints on how easy it is to reuse the data.  Also, consider the license that specifies 3rd party rights, i.e., are you allowed to use the data and then distribute your product.  Ideally, the repository should have a clear statement about file formats, i.e., which are acceptable and which are open source.  In the absence of such a policy, we try to look at the formats available.  If some are open and some are closed, we code as “Yes with proprietary formats”.  If individual data sets are offered under multiple licenses, that can make it more difficult to reuse.

#### Terms
* **Yes:**  Permissive license or data use terms including the right to re-distribute products arising from the data;  open and well supported format
* **Somewhat:** Yes with proprietary formats, or have multiple licenses that require users to navigate the terms separately for each data set. A proprietary format that is still well used and has multiple tools that can read it, e.g., `xls`, is better than a custom format that is not well supported
* **No:**  A proprietary format that is difficult to read without the required software. Inability to distribute data products so that others may build on them. Terms of use are unclear.  
